content: source track draft: simplify and clarify level goals (#1097)
slsa-framework/slsa: docs/spec/draft/verifying-source.md

---
title: Verifying source
description: SLSA uses attestations to indicate security claims associated with a repository revision, but attestations don't do anything unless somebody inspects them.
SLSA calls that inspection verification, and this page describes how to verify properties of source revisions using their SLSA source provenance attestations.
The intended audience is platform implementers, security engineers, and software consumers.
---

SLSA uses attestations to indicate security claims associated with a repository revision, but attestations don't do anything unless somebody inspects them.
SLSA calls that inspection **verification**, and this page describes how to verify properties of source revisions using their SLSA source provenance attestations.

Source Control Platforms (SCPs) may issue attestations of the process that was used to create specific revisions of a repository.

A Verification Summary Attestation (VSA) can make verification more efficient by recording the result of prior verifications.
VSA may be issued by a VSA provider to make a SLSA source level determination based on the content of those attestations.

## How to verify SLSA source level

> TODO: this section needs work.

Author: @TomHennen I think this whole file should be considered a placeholder. 

It's an interesting thought experiment how one might go about verifying repo revisions at the different levels given their definitions. 
The build track always has at least some attestation file to work with, which won't be the case here in the current form.

Reviewer: Agreed, but I think that's OK?

We'd previously talked about working on attestation formats outside of this particular PR.  It's possible we can come up with a good generic format that can be used (in which case great!) but if not I think it should be 'ok' to rely on the domain expertise of the SCP (or related systems) to make those attestations?

### SLSA Level 1

> Because there is no standardized format, the verification strategy is dependent upon the technologies being used.

Author: ```suggestion
Because there is no required attestation document at this level, the verification strategy is dependent upon the technologies being used.
```

Reviewer: LGTM

-   If you can prove that the revision comes from the expected canonical location for the repository, the source meets level 1.
-   If you cannot, it does not meet level 1.

### SLSA Level 2

> Because there is no standardized format, the verification strategy is dependent upon the technologies being used.

Reviewer: LGTM

> -   If the repository also has basic history protections, it meets level 2.

Author: these would probably need to be defined similarly to https://github.com/ossf/scorecard/blob/main/docs/checks.md#branch-protection

### SLSA Level 3+

Repos at this level report their claims in a signed attestation.

1.  For each repository you have, identify the repository id (such as the URL) and the revision id (such as the git commit SHA)
2.  Acquire all attestations for that repository id and revision id combination from preconfigured trusted attestation servers.
3.  Ensure that the source provenance attestations match the revision id.
4.  Ensure that the source provenance attestation documents were signed by a preconfigured root of trust.
5.  Ensure that the claims in the revision's provenance attestation meet your expectations for that repository.

> ## Common Source Controls and their Applications

Author: moved here out of source-requirements.md
